Hello and welcome back to the advanced course on our programming in the press tural we learned about
the Apply function and how to use it in our So we had quite a few examples of how it can be convenient
to apply certain functions to your whole matrix.
And in one go.
And today we were actually going to concrete that in today we're going to have a tutorial that is not
so much tailored to achieving what we need to achieve in this section but it's rather very fundamental
and conceptual in its nature.
We're going to talk about how to recreate the Apply function using loops.
So you see I decided to bring this up because normally this is not discussed in materials courses trainings
on our probing.
But personally I find that this is incredibly valuable because that for me coming from a C C++ type
of background and a skill and so on the play functions were very alien.
You don't normally come across them or anything similar to them in other programming languages.
And knowing those other methods that are used to or that I use in other programming languages like loops
I have to admit but it made me procrastinate back in the day of learning are because this was so different
.
And until I actually sat down and understood how these apply functions work through loops until then
it was kind of like very very different for me.
So that's what I want to do today I want to show you how to recreate the Apply function with loops and
hopefully it click in your head as well.
So let's go ahead and do this this won't take long but it will have immense value especially if you're
coming from a programming background into our.
All right so there is Chicago.
There's our matrix.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to find the means of every row and method number one is
going to be via loops.
So let's assume we forgot everything about the Apply function we don't know that it exists right.
So we've just started learning our.
And we know a bit about loops.
How would we do it.
Well we would loop through all of these rows one by one and we would find the average of a show.
So go ahead and do that.
First things first we would create a vector which would be the area where we put the output I would
call it output output and would fill it with no meaning.
We're preparing an empty vector because inside a loop you need somewhere to put your results there would
create a loop.
So I'd say for I in 1 2 5 or we are cheating here a little bit because we already know that there's
five rows.
Ideally you would put in something like number of rows of this matrix.
But let's leave it at 1 to 5 just to make things easier.
And here we are going to run the cycle or the loop and what we want is for.
So I is going to be our iterator is going to go from 1 to 5 and for every I what we want to do is we
want to look at the mean right to the average of each row.
So how do we get to a row.
If hypothetically we wanted to look at the first row of this matrix What would you say we would say
Chicago square brackets and one common nothing so far unless I get just the first draw right.
So 32 36 46 59 32 36 46 59.
So now if I run this this will give me that average of this first row.
But now I know that I'm doing this in a loop.
So it's like iterating over and over and over so it's going one two three four or five.
So in the first iteration.
Yes indeed I will need the first row but then in the second iteration only the second row.
So how do I get this to the second row.
Knowing that I will be iterating Well Sibyl I just replaced this one with an eye.
And that way whatever I's equal to that of roll will get here and so in the first iteration of the first
row second will be the second row and so on.
And then what you want to do is you want to place this result in the output.
So it's output and it'll have an index right into the index will also match.
So the first element of the output will be the average for the first row.
The second element of the output will be the average for the second row and so on.
And so that's what's going to give us the results so far on this well altogether.
Now you can see that it's finished.
We don't see anything so let's have a look at the result output.
So we humans are going to type Let's see what we have.
All right.
Around that.
So we got that we've got the averages.
Now what we want to do is we want to change this into a named vector right because we don't know what
is an average for what like we do know the order here but does nothing tell us the order here.
So we want to add these names as the names of this vector.
So let's go ahead and do that final step will say names of output is going to be row names of Chicago
in to borrow them from the Chicago matrix.
And now if we look at output you'll see that.
Now we do have a named vector and we know that the average So the average of the average high temperature
Fahrenheit is 59 by three.
This is forty three point twenty five three point twenty five and so on.
So this is how much code we had to write to do it via loops.
Now we're going to do it method number two via apply.
Right.
So how are we going to do it.
Very simple.
We already know how to do it or just say apply which matrix we are applying this to Chicago obviously
or we're applying it to the rows or circles to the rows.
And what are applying we we're applying the mean run that done as the results are identical absolutely
identical.
But this took one line of code.
This took one two three four five six seven lines of code and that's is the main difference that these
functions are just shorter.
They're faster because our is just designed that way and they allow you to create very interesting code
very quickly so this is a huge advantage of this programming language and it should be used of course
you can still go through the loop method and cycles and everything.
But generally speaking nobody who knows our well and uses it on a daily basis.
Nobody does this because pretty much anything you can create a for loop can be created with apply or
another one of those functions from the Apply family.
So I hope you enjoy this tutorial and it does kind of add some value to your conceptual understanding
of programming in our.
And also specifically apply family functions.
So whenever we're talking about apply apply a supply or any other function down in this further down
in the section scores just try to also remember what we talked about here and kind of picture oh how
would this look like in loops.
OK now I understand what the specific function is achieving.
And that way to do it a couple times it will become second nature and you don't even have to think about
loops anymore.
You'll just literally see right away what's going on.
It will help you really grasp these concepts.
All right so that brings us to the end of this tutorial and maybe play around with that.
Try a different example try an example.
Another one of the examples that we had over here and tried to see if you can recreate it and I look
forward to seeing you on the next natural until then happy coding